add release notes for v7.4.0 (#14834)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.4.0.md

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<!-- key feature placeholder-->

## Feature details

### Performance

- note 1

> - note 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Introduce cloud-based global sorting capability to improve the performance and stability of parallel execution tasks such as `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1456-->

    Before v7.4.0, when executing distributed parallel execution framework tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO`, TiDB nodes need to prepare a large local disk for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. Due to the inability to sort from a global perspective, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each node during import. This would cause TiKV to constantly perform compaction operations when importing these KV pairs into TiKV, reducing the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO`.

    With the introduction of the global sorting feature in v7.4.0, the encoded data is now written to cloud storage instead of being written locally and sorted. Global sorting is performed in cloud storage, and then the indexed data and table data that have undergone global sorting are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

    For details, see [user document](/tidb-global-sort.md)。
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Optimize parallel multi schema change to improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1307-->

    Before v7.4.0, when you use parallel multi schema change to commit multiple `ADD INDEX` operations in a single SQL statement, the performance is the same as using multiple independent SQL statements for `ADD INDEX` operations. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.

    For details, see [user document](链接)。

```

### Reliability

- note 1

> - note 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the option of optimizer mode [#46080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46080) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1527-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduce a new system variable [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740), which controls the estimation method of the optimizer. The default value `moderate` maintains the previous behavior of the optimizer, where it uses runtime statistics to correct estimations based on data modifications. If this system variable is set to `determinate`, the optimizer generates execution plans solely based on statistics without considering runtime corrections.

    For long-term stable OLTP applications or situations where you are confident about existing execution plans, it is recommended to switch to `determinate` mode after testing. This reduces potential plan changes.

    For details, see [user document](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740)。

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to lock [statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as granting and collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB also supports locking and unlocking statistics information for specific partitions, improving flexibility. When you have confidence in queries and execution plans in the database and do not want any changes to occur, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

    For details, see [user document](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息)。

```

### SQL

- note 1

- note 2

### DB operations

- note 1

- note 2

### Observability

- note 1

- note 2

### Data migration

- note 1

> - note 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support real-time update of checkpoint for incremental data validation [#issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1496-->

    Before v7.4.0, the incremental data validation feature is used to determine whether the data replication from DM to downstream is consistent with upstream. This is used as the basis for cutting over business traffic from upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the incremental validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is only a few tens of seconds.

    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for incremental data validation, you can pass in the binlog position filled in by the upstream database. Once the incremental validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it will immediately refresh the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately returned checkpoint.

    For details, see [user document](链接)。
    
    
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

TiCDC improves large message handling with claim check pattern
Before v7.4.0, TiCDC was not able to send large messages downstream to the Kafka broker that would have exceeded Kafkas maximum message size. Starting from v7.4.0, TiCDC allows for users to configure an external storage location where these large messages can be stored. Instead of the large message, a reference (or claim check) is used in the message and sent downstream to the Kafka broker. Message consumers can then retrieve the message content from the external storage location when needed. See[documentation for further details]

```

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

    For details, see [user document](/tidb-global-sort.md)。

* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1307-->

    Before v7.4.0, when you use parallel multi schema change to commit multiple `ADD INDEX` operations in a single SQL statement, the performance is the same as using multiple independent SQL statements for `ADD INDEX` operations. However, after optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.

    For details, see [user document](链接)。

### Reliability

> - note 1

Author: ```suggestion
* 引入自定义 TiKV 读取超时时间 [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->

    在通常情况下，TiKV 处理请求非常快，只需几毫秒。但是，当某个 TiKV 节点遇到磁盘 I/O 抖动或网络延迟时，请求处理时间可能会大幅增加。在 v7.4.0 以前的版本中，TiKV 请求的超时限制是固定的，不能调整，因此当 TiKV 节点出现问题时，TiDB 必须等待超时响应，这导致了抖动期间应用程序的查询性能受到明显影响。
    
    TiDB 在 v7.4.0 中引入了一个新参数 [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/system-variables.md#tidb_kv_read_timeout-从-v740-版本开始引入)，你可以自定义查询语句中 TiDB 发送给 TiKV 的 RPC 读请求的超时时间。这意味着，当某个 TiKV 节点因磁盘或网络问题导致请求延迟时，TiDB 可以更快地超时并将请求重新发送给其他 TiKV 节点，从而降低查询延迟。如果所有 TiKV 节点的请求都超时，TiDB 将使用默认的超时时间进行重试。该参数也支持通过 Hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) 来设置查询语句中 TiDB 发送 TiKV RPC 读请求的超时时间。这一改进将使 TiDB 在面对不稳定的网络或存储环境时，更灵活地适应各种情况，提高查询性能，提升用户体验。

    更多的信息，请参考[用户文档](/system-variables.md#tidb_kv_read_timeout-从-v740-版本开始引入)。
```

    For long-term stable OLTP applications or situations where you are confident in the existing execution plans, it is recommended to switch to `determinate` mode after testing. This reduces potential plan changes.

    For details, see [user document](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740)。

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to [lock statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB supports locking and unlocking statistics for specific partitions, providing greater flexibility. If you are confident in queries and execution plans in the database and want to prevent any changes from occurring, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

    For details, see [user document](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息)。

### SQL

- note 1

- note 2

### DB operations

- note 1

- note 2

### Observability

> - note 1

Author: ```suggestion
* 向日志中添加会话标识和会话别名 [#46071](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46071) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@hfxsd** <!--无 FD 及用户文档，只提供 release notes-->

    在对 SQL 执行问题做故障定位的时候，经常需要把 TiDB 各组件日志中的内容进行关联，由此找到问题的根本原因。从 v7.4.0 开始，TiDB 将会话标识 (`CONNECTION_ID`) 写入与会话相关的日志内容中，包括 TiDB 日志、慢查询日志、以及 TiKV 上 coprocessor 的慢日志记录。你可以根据会话标识，将几个日志中的内容关联起来，提升故障定位和诊断的效率。 

    除此之外，通过设置会话级变量 [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-从-v740-版本开始引入)，你可以向上述日志中添加自定义的标识。借助这个能力，把业务识别信息注入日志，可以将日志中的内容与业务关联，打通了业务到日志的链路，降低了诊断工作的难度。
```

- note 2

### Data migration

> - note 1

Author: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) 支持拦截不兼容（破坏数据一致性）的 DDL 变更（实验特性） [#9692](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9692) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1523-->

    在 v7.4.0 之前，使用 DM 的 Binlog Filter 功能颗粒度比较粗，例如只能过滤 ALTER 这种大颗粒度的 DDL Event，这种方式在某些业务场景会收到限制，例如业务允许将 Decimal 字段类型的精度调大，但是不允许减小。因此，在 v7.4.0 引入一个新的 Event Name `incompatible DDL changes`，用于拦截那些变更后会导致数据丢失、数据被截断、精度损失等问题的 DDL，并报错提示，让你可以及时介入处理，避免对下游的业务数据产生影响。
    
    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。
```

* Support real-time update of checkpoint for incremental data validation [#issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1496-->

>     Before v7.4.0, the incremental data validation feature is used to determine whether the data replication from DM to downstream is consistent with upstream. This is used as the basis for cutting over business traffic from upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the incremental validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is only a few tens of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0, the continuous data validation feature is used to ensure the consistency of data replication from DM to downstream with upstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.
```

>     With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for incremental data validation, you can pass in the binlog position filled in by the upstream database. Once the incremental validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it will immediately refresh the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately returned checkpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it will immediately refresh the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.
```

    For details, see [user document](链接)。
    
    

- TiCDC improves large message handling with claim check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1550 英文 comment 原文 https://internal.pingcap.net/jira/browse/FD-1550?focusedCommentId=149207&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-149207-->

>     Before v7.4.0, TiCDC was not able to send large messages downstream to the Kafka broker that would have exceeded Kafkas maximum message size. Starting from v7.4.0, TiCDC allows for users to configure an external storage location where these large messages can be stored. Instead of the large message, a reference (or claim check) is used in the message and sent downstream to the Kafka broker. Message consumers can then retrieve the message content from the external storage location when needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size  (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
```

>     See[documentation for further details]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For details, see [user document]().
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* 自 v7.4.0 起， TiDB 已经兼容 MySQL 8.0 的核心功能，`version()` 将返回以 `8.0.11` 为前缀的版本信息。 

```

* Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [#issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1496-->

    Before v7.4.0, the continuous data validation feature is used to ensure the consistency of data replication from DM to downstream with upstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.

    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it will immediately refresh the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.

    For details, see [user document](链接)。
    

> * Dumpling supports the user-defined terminator when exporting data to CSV files [#issue](https:// ) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1571-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Dumpling supports the user-defined terminator when exporting data to CSV files [#46982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46982) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1571-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md).

* Support configurable TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->

    Normally, TiKV processes requests very quickly, in a matter of milliseconds. However, when a TiKV node encounters disk I/O jitter or network latency, the request processing time can increase significantly. In versions earlier than v7.4.0, the timeout limit for TiKV requests was fixed and could not be adjusted, so TiDB had to wait for a timeout response when there was a problem with a TiKV node, which resulted in a noticeable impact on application query performance during jitter.
     

>     TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/system-variables.md#tidb_kv_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query statement. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If the requests time out for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. This system variable also supports setting the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements via the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements. This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query statement. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If the requests time out for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. This system variable also supports setting the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements via the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements. This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.
```

>     For details, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_kv_read_timeout-new-in-v740).

Author: ```suggestion
    For details, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740).
```

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size  (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    
    For details, see [documentation]().

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |        |                              |      |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
| [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. When a TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your application is sensitive to the latency of the SQL queries, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout of the TiKV RPC read requests. In this case, when a TiKV node has I/O latency jitter, TiDB can time out quickly and re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, TiDB will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds). |
```

### Reliability

* TiFlash supports query-level data spilling [#7738](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7738) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)  **tw@qiancai** <!--1493-->

    Starting from v7.0.0, TiFlash supports controlling data spilling for three operators: `GROUP BY`, `ORDER BY`, and `JOIN`. This feature prevents issues such as query termination or system crashes when the data size exceeds the available memory. However, managing spilling for each operator individually can be cumbersome and ineffective for overall resource control.

    In v7.4.0, TiFlash introduces the query-level data spilling. By setting the memory limit for a query on a TiFlash node using [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) and the memory ratio that triggers data spilling using [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740), you can conveniently manage the memory usage of a query and have better control over TiFlash memory resources.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md).

> * Introduce a configurable TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support configurable TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->
```

### DB operations

- note 1

* Support collation `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` and `utf8mb4_0900_bin` [#37566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37566) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1186-->

    TiDB v7.4.0 enhances the support for migrating data from MySQL 8.0 and adds two collations: `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` and `utf8mb4_0900_bin`. `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` is the default collation in MySQL 8.0.

    TiDB v7.4.0 also introduces the system variable `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` which is compatible with MySQL 8.0. This enables you to specify the default collation for the utf8mb4 character set and provides compatibility with migration or data replication from MySQL 5.7 or earlier versions.

    For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb).

### Observability

* Support adding session connection IDs and session aliases to logs [#46071](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46071) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@hfxsd** <!--无 FD 及用户文档，只提供 release notes-->
   

>      When you're troubleshooting SQL execution problems, it's often necessary to correlate the contents of TiDB's component logs to pinpoint the root cause of the problem. Starting with v7.4.0, you can write session connection IDs (`CONNECTION_ID`) to session-related logs, including TiDB logs, slow query logs, and slow logs from the coprocessor on TiKV. You can correlate the contents of several types of logs based on session connection IDs to improve troubleshooting and diagnostic efficiency. 

Author: ```suggestion
     When you troubleshoot SQL execution problems, it is often necessary to correlate the contents of TiDB component logs to pinpoint the root cause of the problem. Starting with v7.4.0, you can write session connection IDs (`CONNECTION_ID`) to session-related logs, including TiDB logs, slow query logs, and slow logs from the coprocessor on TiKV. You can correlate the contents of several types of logs based on session connection IDs to improve troubleshooting and diagnostic efficiency. 
```

     In addition, by setting the session-level system variable [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740), you can add custom identifiers to the logs mentioned above. With this ability to inject business identification information into the logs, you can correlate the contents of the logs with the business, build the link from the business to the logs, and reduce the difficulty of diagnostic work.     

> * TiDB Dashboard provides table view execution plans [#1589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1589) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1434-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans in a table view [#1589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1589) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1434-->
```

>     In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard provides table view execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages to improve the diagnosis experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages in a table view to improve the diagnosis experience.
```

    Starting from v7.4.0, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [global sorting](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature, which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

    In addition, in v7.4.0, the `IMPORT INTO` feature introduces the following functionalities:

    - Support configuring the `Split_File` option, which allows you to split a large CSV file into multiple 256 MiB small CSV files for parallel processing, improving import performance.
    - Support importing compressed CSV and SQL files. The supported compression formats include `.gzip`, `.gz`, `.zstd`, `.zst`, and `.snappy`.

    For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

* Dumpling supports the user-defined terminator when exporting data to CSV files [#46982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46982) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1571-->

>     Prior to v7.4.0, when Dumpling exported data to a CSV file, the default terminator is "\r\n", which could not be parsed by some downstream systems that could only parse the "\n" terminator , or had to be converted by a third-party tool to parse the CSV file. 

Author: ```suggestion
    Prior to v7.4.0, when Dumpling exported data to a CSV file, the default terminator is "\r\n", which could not be parsed by some downstream systems that could only parse the "\n" terminator, or had to be converted by a third-party tool to parse the CSV file. 
```

>     Starting from v7.4.0, a new parameter `--csv-line-terminator` is introduced. This parameter allows you to pass in the required terminator when exporting data to a CSV file. This parameter supports `\r\n' and `\n'. The default terminator is `\r\n' to keep consistent with earlier versions.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces a new parameter `--csv-line-terminator`. This parameter allows you to pass in the required terminator when exporting data to a CSV file. This parameter supports `\r\n' and `\n'. The default terminator is `\r\n' to keep consistent with earlier versions.
```

>     For details, see [documentation](待补充).

Author: ```suggestion
    For details, see [documentation](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).
```

* TiCDC supports replicating data to Pulsar [#9413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9413) @[yumchina](https://github.com/yumchina) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1552-->

    TiCDC now supports seamless integration with Pulsar. Pulsar is a cloud-native and distributed message streaming platform that enhances your real-time data streaming experience. With this new capability, TiCDC provides you with the ability to easily capture and replicate TiDB changes to Pulsar, offering new possibilities for data processing and analytics capabilities. You can develop your own consumer applications that read and process newly generated change data from Pulsar to meet specific business needs. TiCDC currently supports replicating change data in the `canal-json` format.

    For details, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size  (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    
    For details, see [documentation]().

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | You can use this variable to customize the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
```

| [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. When a TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your application is sensitive to the latency of the SQL queries, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout of the TiKV RPC read requests. In this case, when a TiKV node has I/O latency jitter, TiDB can time out quickly and re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, TiDB will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds). |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> |          |          |          |          |

Author: ```suggestion
| Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | you can specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |
```

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

> <!-- key feature placeholder-->

Author: ```suggestion
7.4.0 introduces the following major features. In addition to that, 7.4.0 also includes a series of enhancements (described in the [Feature details](#feature-details) section) to query stability in TiDB server and TiFlash. These enhancements are more miscellaneous in nature and not user-facing so they are not included in the following table.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Support for running multiple DDL statements in parallel (experimental) <!--Cathy--></td>
    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td>Global sort optimization <!--Frank--></td>
    <td>Laying the groundwork with the distributed framework in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings. Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Resource Control for background jobs (experimental) <!--Roger--></td>
    <td>v7.1 introduced Resource Control to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. v7.4 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. This should apply to all background tasks eventually. The first to realize this benefit are: Backup & Recovery, Load Data, and Online DDL.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports storage-computing separation and S3 <!--Zhang Ye--></td>
    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">SQL</td>
    <td>More complete partition management <!--Zhang Ye--></td>
    <td>Prior to v7.4, TiDB supported truncate partition, exchange partition, and add/drop/reorganize partition on Range/List Partitioning
In this version, TiDB partition management adds:
      <ul>
        <li>Add/Coalesce Partition on Hash/Key partitioning</li>
        <li>Remove partition</li>
        <li>Partitioning existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modifying existing partition types on tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: Add utf8mb4 charset <!--Roger--></td>
    <td> In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0, it's more than likely the collation is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. We'll be seeing more cases where customers are migrating from MySQL 8.0 with collation utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye--></td>
    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash pipeline execution model GA <!--Zhang Ye--></td>
    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>DDL labels for TiDB nodes <!--Frank--></td>
    <td><!--Description to be added--></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
```

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * TiDB introduces the ability to set the TiDB Service Scope to select the applicable TiDB nodes to perform concurrent `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks (experimental) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1505-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support setting the TiDB Service Scope to select the applicable TiDB nodes to perform concurrent `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks (experimental) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1505-->
```

>     Executing `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel in a resource-intensive cluster can consume a large amount of TiDB node resources, which can lead to cluster performance degradation. TiDB v7.4.0 introduces the ability to set the TiDB Service Scope as an experimental feature. You can select a few existing TiDB nodes or set the TiDB Service Scope for new TiDB nodes, and all parallel `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks only run on these nodes. This mechanism can avoid performance impact on existing services.

Author: ```suggestion
    Executing `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel in a resource-intensive cluster can consume a large amount of TiDB node resources, which can lead to cluster performance degradation. Starting from v7.4.0, you can use the system variable [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) to control the service scope of each TiDB node under the [TiDB Backend Task Distributed Execution Framework](/tidb-distributed-execution- framework.md) for each TiDB node. You can select a few existing TiDB nodes or set the TiDB Service Scope for new TiDB nodes, and all parallel `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks only run on these nodes. This mechanism can avoid performance impact on existing services.
```

    Before v7.4.0, when executing tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` in the distributed parallel execution framework, each TiDB node needs to allocate a significant amount of local disk space for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. However, due to the lack of global sorting capability, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each individual node during the process. As a result, TiKV has to constantly perform compaction operations while importing these KV pairs into its storage engine, which impacts the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`.

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

>     For details, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).
```

* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1307-->

    Before v7.4.0, when you use parallel multi schema change to commit multiple `ADD INDEX` operations in a single SQL statement, the performance is the same as using multiple independent SQL statements for `ADD INDEX` operations. However, after optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.

>     For details, see [documentation](链接)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](链接).
```

### Reliability

* TiFlash supports query-level data spilling [#7738](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7738) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)  **tw@qiancai** <!--1493-->

    Starting from v7.0.0, TiFlash supports controlling data spilling for three operators: `GROUP BY`, `ORDER BY`, and `JOIN`. This feature prevents issues such as query termination or system crashes when the data size exceeds the available memory. However, managing spilling for each operator individually can be cumbersome and ineffective for overall resource control.

    In v7.4.0, TiFlash introduces the query-level data spilling. By setting the memory limit for a query on a TiFlash node using [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) and the memory ratio that triggers data spilling using [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740), you can conveniently manage the memory usage of a query and have better control over TiFlash memory resources.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md).

> * Support configurable TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support user-defined TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1560-->
```

    Normally, TiKV processes requests very quickly, in a matter of milliseconds. However, when a TiKV node encounters disk I/O jitter or network latency, the request processing time can increase significantly. In versions earlier than v7.4.0, the timeout limit for TiKV requests was fixed and could not be adjusted, so TiDB had to wait for a timeout response when there was a problem with a TiKV node, which resulted in a noticeable impact on application query performance during jitter.
     

>     TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query statement. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If the requests time out for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. This system variable also supports setting the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements via the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn) to set the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements. This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query statement. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If the requests time out for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. Additionally, you can also set the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in query statements via the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn). This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.
```

>     For details, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740).
```

    Starting from v7.2.0, TiFlash introduces a pipeline execution model. This model centrally manages all thread resources and schedules task execution uniformly, maximizing the utilization of thread resources while avoiding resource overuse. In v7.4.0, TiFlash improves the statistics of thread resource usage, and the pipeline execution model becomes a GA feature and is enabled by default. Since this feature is mutually dependent with the TiFlash resource control feature, TiDB v7.4.0 removes the variable `tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model` used to control whether to enable the pipeline execution model in previous versions. Instead, you can enable or disable the pipeline execution model and the TiFlash resource control feature by configuring the TiFlash parameter `tidb_enable_resource_control`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-pipeline-model.md).

* Add the option of optimizer mode [#46080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46080) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1527-->

>     In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces a new system variable [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740), which controls the estimation method used by the optimizer. The default value `moderate` maintains the previous behavior of the optimizer, where it uses runtime statistics to adjust estimations based on data modifications. If this variable is set to `determinate`, the optimizer generates execution plans solely based on statistics without considering runtime corrections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces a new system variable [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740), which controls the estimation method used by the optimizer. The default value `moderate` maintains the previous behavior of the optimizer, where it uses runtime statistics to adjust estimations based on data changes. If this variable is set to `determinate`, the optimizer generates execution plans solely based on statistics without considering runtime corrections.
```

    For long-term stable OLTP applications or situations where you are confident in the existing execution plans, it is recommended to switch to `determinate` mode after testing. This reduces potential plan changes.

>     For details, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740).
```

* TiDB resource control supports managing background tasks (experimental) [#issue号](链接) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1448-->

    Background tasks, such as data backup and automatic statistics collection, are low-priority but consume many resources. These tasks are usually triggered periodically or irregularly. During execution, they consume a lot of resources, thus affecting the performance of online high-priority tasks. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiDB resource control feature supports managing background tasks. This feature reduces the performance impact of low-priority tasks on online application, enabling rational resource allocation, and greatly improving cluster stability.

    TiDB supports the following types of background tasks:

    - `lightning`: perform import tasks using [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). Both physical and logical import modes of TiDB Lightning are supported.
    - `br`: perform backup and restore tasks using [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md). PITR is not supported.
    - `ddl`: control the resource usage during the batch data write back phase of Reorg DDLs.

>     - `analyze`: the [collect statistics](/statistics.md#collect-statistics) tasks that are manually executed or automatically triggered by TiDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `stats`: the [collect statistics](/statistics.md#collect-statistics) tasks that are manually executed or automatically triggered by TiDB.
```

    By default, the task types that are marked as background tasks are empty, and the management of background tasks is disabled. This default behavior is the same as that of versions prior to TiDB v7.4.0. To manage background tasks, you need to manually modify the background task types of the `default` resource group.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md).

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to [lock statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB supports locking and unlocking statistics for specific partitions, providing greater flexibility. If you are confident in queries and execution plans in the database and want to prevent any changes from occurring, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

>     For details, see [documentation](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息).
```

### SQL

* TiDB fully supports partition type management [#42728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42728) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@qiancai** <!--1370-->

>     Before v7.4.0,  partition types of partitioned tables in TiDB cannot be modified. Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB supports modifing partitioned tables into non-partitioned tables or non-partitioned tables into partitioned tables, and supports changing partition types. Hence, now you can flexibly adjust the partition types and numbers in a partitioned table. For example, you can use the `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY ...` statement to modify the partition type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0,  partition types of partitioned tables in TiDB cannot be modified. Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB supports modifying partitioned tables into non-partitioned tables or non-partitioned tables into partitioned tables, and supports changing partition types. Hence, now you can flexibly adjust the partition type and number for a partitioned table. For example, you can use the `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY ...` statement to modify the partition type.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table).

* TiDB supports using the `ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#44487](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44487) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) **tw@qiancai** <!--1287-->

>     The `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function are commonly used features in data analysis for multi-dimensional data summarization. Starting from v7.4.0, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function in the `GROUP BY` clause. For example, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier in the `SELECT ... FROM ... GROUP BY ... WITH ROLLUP` syntax.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function are commonly used in data analysis for multi-dimensional data summarization. Starting from v7.4.0, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function in the `GROUP BY` clause. For example, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier in the `SELECT ... FROM ... GROUP BY ... WITH ROLLUP` syntax.
```

     In addition, by setting the session-level system variable [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740), you can add custom identifiers to the logs mentioned above. With this ability to inject business identification information into the logs, you can correlate the contents of the logs with the business, build the link from the business to the logs, and reduce the difficulty of diagnostic work.     

* TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans in a table view [#1589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1589) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1434-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages in a table view to improve the diagnosis experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](链接).

### Data migration

* Data Migration (DM) supports blocking incompatible (data-consistency-corrupting) DDL changes (experimental) [#9692](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9692) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1523-->

>      Prior to v7.4.0, the Binlog Filter function using DM has a coarse granularity. For example, it can only filter DDL events with a large granularity such as `ALTER`, which is limited in some business scenarios. For example, you can only increase the precision of the decimal field type, but cannot decrease it.

Author: ```suggestion
     Prior to v7.4.0, the [Binlog filter](/dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md) function using DM has a coarse granularity. For example, it can only filter DDL events with a large granularity such as `ALTER`, which is limited in some business scenarios. For example, you can only increase the precision of the decimal field type, but cannot decrease it.
```

> * Data Migration (DM) supports blocking incompatible (data-consistency-corrupting) DDL changes (experimental) [#9692](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9692) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1523-->
> 
>      Prior to v7.4.0, the [Binlog filter](/dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md) function using DM has a coarse granularity. For example, it can only filter DDL events with a large granularity such as `ALTER`, which is limited in some business scenarios. For example, you can only increase the precision of the decimal field type, but cannot decrease it.
>      
>      TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new event name `incompatible DDL changes`, which is used to intercept DDLs whose changes will lead to data loss, data truncation, or loss of precision. It also reports error alerts, so that you can intervene in time to deal with them to avoid the impact on downstream business data.
>      
>      For details, see [documentation](待补充).
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [#issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1496-->

>     Before v7.4.0, the continuous data validation feature is used to ensure the consistency of data replication from DM to downstream with upstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.
> 
>     With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it will immediately refresh the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.
> 
>     For details, see [documentation](链接)。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0, the continuous data validation feature ensures the data consistency during replication from DM to downstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.

    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it immediately refreshes the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.

    For more information, see [documentation](链接).
```

> * Enhance the `IMPORT INTO` feature and support global sorting of imported data via cloud storage (experimental) [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1494-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enhance the `IMPORT INTO` feature [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1494-->
```

>     Starting from v7.4.0, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [global sorting](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature, which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.4.0, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [global sorting](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature (experimental), which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.
```

    In addition, in v7.4.0, the `IMPORT INTO` feature introduces the following functionalities:

    - Support configuring the `Split_File` option, which allows you to split a large CSV file into multiple 256 MiB small CSV files for parallel processing, improving import performance.
    - Support importing compressed CSV and SQL files. The supported compression formats include `.gzip`, `.gz`, `.zstd`, `.zst`, and `.snappy`.

    For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

* Dumpling supports the user-defined terminator when exporting data to CSV files [#46982](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46982) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1571-->

>     Prior to v7.4.0, when Dumpling exported data to a CSV file, the default terminator is "\r\n", which could not be parsed by some downstream systems that could only parse the "\n" terminator, or had to be converted by a third-party tool to parse the CSV file. 

Author: ```suggestion
    Prior to v7.4.0, when Dumpling exported data to a CSV file, the terminator is "\r\n", which could not be parsed by some downstream systems that could only parse the "\n" terminator, or had to be converted by a third-party tool to parse the CSV file. 
```

>     Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces a new parameter `--csv-line-terminator`. This parameter allows you to pass in the required terminator when exporting data to a CSV file. This parameter supports `\r\n' and `\n'. The default terminator is `\r\n' to keep consistent with earlier versions.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.4.0, Dumpling introduces a new parameter `--csv-line-terminator`. This parameter allows you to pass in the required terminator when exporting data to a CSV file. This parameter supports `\r\n' and `\n'. The default terminator is `\r\n' to keep consistent with earlier versions.
```

     
    For details, see [documentation](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling).

* TiCDC supports replicating data to Pulsar [#9413](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9413) @[yumchina](https://github.com/yumchina) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1552-->

>     TiCDC now supports seamless integration with Pulsar. Pulsar is a cloud-native and distributed message streaming platform that enhances your real-time data streaming experience. With this new capability, TiCDC provides you with the ability to easily capture and replicate TiDB changes to Pulsar, offering new possibilities for data processing and analytics capabilities. You can develop your own consumer applications that read and process newly generated change data from Pulsar to meet specific business needs. TiCDC currently supports replicating change data in the `canal-json` format.

Author: ```suggestion
    Pulsar is a cloud-native and distributed message streaming platform that significantly enhances your real-time data streaming experience. Starting from v7.4.0, TiCDC supports synchronizing change data to Pulsar in `canal-json` format to achieve seamless integration with Pulsar. With this feature, TiCDC provides you with the ability to easily capture and replicate TiDB changes to Pulsar, offering new possibilities for data processing and analytics capabilities. You can develop your own consumer applications that read and process newly generated change data from Pulsar to meet specific business needs. TiCDC currently supports replicating change data in the `canal-json` format.
```

    For details, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md).

> - TiCDC improves large message handling with claim check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1550 英文 comment 原文 https://internal.pingcap.net/jira/browse/FD-1550?focusedCommentId=149207&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-149207-->
> 
>     Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size  (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
>     
>     For details, see [documentation]().

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiCDC improves large message handling with claim-check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1550-->

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation]().
```

|          |          |          |          |
| TiFlash | [`compact_log_min_gap`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | When the gap between the `applied_index` advanced by the current Raft state machine and the `applied_index` at the last disk spilling exceeds `compact_log_min_gap`, TiFlash executes the `CompactLog` command from TiKV and spills data to disk. |
| TiFlash | [`storage.format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Modified | Change the default value from `4` to `5`. The new format can reduce the number of physical files by merging smaller files. |
|    |   |    |  |

## Deprecated features

- note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - 改进 TiFlash 写入过程的落盘策略，提升随机写入负载下的写性能 [#7564](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7564) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo) **tw@qiancai** <!--1309-->
```

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

7.4.0 introduces the following major features. In addition to that, 7.4.0 also includes a series of enhancements (described in the [Feature details](#feature-details) section) to query stability in TiDB server and TiFlash. These enhancements are more miscellaneous in nature and not user-facing so they are not included in the following table.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Support for running multiple DDL statements in parallel (experimental) <!--Cathy--></td>

Author: @benmaoer

    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Global sort optimization <!--Frank--></td>

Author: @Frank945946

    <td>Laying the groundwork with the distributed framework in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings. Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource Control for background jobs (experimental) <!--Roger--></td>

Author: @songrijie

>     <td>v7.1 introduced Resource Control to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. v7.4 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. This should apply to all background tasks eventually. The first to realize this benefit are: Backup & Recovery, Load Data, and Online DDL.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>v7.1 introduced Resource Control to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. v7.4 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. Now the resource produced by background tasks can be identified and managed by resource control. The first to realize this benefit are: Auto-analyze, Backup & Recovery, Load Data, and Online DDL. This should apply to all background tasks eventually. </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash supports storage-computing separation and S3 <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: @joey-yez

    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">SQL</td>

>     <td>More complete partition management <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: @joey-yez

    <td>Prior to v7.4, TiDB supported truncate partition, exchange partition, and add/drop/reorganize partition on Range/List Partitioning
In this version, TiDB partition management adds:
      <ul>
        <li>Add/Coalesce Partition on Hash/Key partitioning</li>
        <li>Remove partition</li>
        <li>Partitioning existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modifying existing partition types on tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: Add utf8mb4 charset <!--Roger--></td>

Author: @songrijie

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: Include collation utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci <!--Roger--></td>
```

>     <td> In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0, it's more than likely the collation is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. We'll be seeing more cases where customers are migrating from MySQL 8.0 with collation utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td> One of remarkable change in MySQL 8.0: the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0 with default collection, it can be migrated or replicated to TiDB smoothly. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: @joey-yez

    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash pipeline execution model GA <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: @joey-yez

Reviewer 5: @samhld pipeline execution model is an interal feature. TiFlash support resource control will be a good choice for this highlight

    <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>DDL labels for TiDB nodes <!--Frank--></td>

Author: @Frank945946

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md).

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to [lock statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB supports locking and unlocking statistics for specific partitions, providing greater flexibility. If you are confident in queries and execution plans in the database and want to prevent any changes from occurring, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

    For details, see [documentation](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息)。

### SQL

* TiDB fully supports partition type management [#42728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42728) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@qiancai** <!--1370-->

>     Before v7.4.0,  partition types of partitioned tables in TiDB cannot be modified. Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB supports modifying partitioned tables into non-partitioned tables or non-partitioned tables into partitioned tables, and supports changing partition types. Hence, now you can flexibly adjust the partition type and number for a partitioned table. For example, you can use the `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY ...` statement to modify the partition type.

Author: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0,  partition types of partitioned tables in TiDB cannot be modified. Starting from v7.4.0, you can change partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables or non-partitioned tables to partitioned tables, and change partition types. Hence, now you can flexibly adjust the partition type and number for a partitioned table. For example, you can use the `ALTER TABLE t PARTITION BY ...` statement to modify the partition type.
```

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

7.4.0 introduces the following major features. In addition to that, 7.4.0 also includes a series of enhancements (described in the [Feature details](#feature-details) section) to query stability in TiDB server and TiFlash. These enhancements are more miscellaneous in nature and not user-facing so they are not included in the following table.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Support for running multiple DDL statements in parallel (experimental) <!--Cathy--></td>
    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Global sort optimization <!--Frank--></td>
>     <td>Laying the groundwork with the distributed framework in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings. Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Improving the performance and stability of 'Import into' and 'Add Index' operations via `global sorting` <!--Frank--></td>
    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks like ADD INDEX or IMPORT INTO in the distributed parallel execution framework required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach, involving partial and localized sorting, often led to data overlaps, increasing TiKV's resource consumption and lower performance and stability. With the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting. Then the data is imported into TiKV in an orderly, eliminating the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions. This significantly enhances the performance and stability of operations like IMPORT INTO and ADD INDEX.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource Control for background jobs (experimental) <!--Roger--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource Control for background jobs (experimental) <!--Roger, tw@orexmt--></td>
```

    <td>v7.1 introduced Resource Control to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. v7.4 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. This should apply to all background tasks eventually. The first to realize this benefit are: Backup & Recovery, Load Data, and Online DDL.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash supports storage-computing separation and S3 <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports storage-computing separation and S3 <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

>     <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash introduces a cloud-native architecture as an option:
      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Introduces S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">SQL</td>

>     <td>More complete partition management <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>More complete partition management <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

>     <td>Prior to v7.4, TiDB supported truncate partition, exchange partition, and add/drop/reorganize partition on Range/List Partitioning

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>Prior to v7.4, TiDB supported truncate partition, exchange partition, add/drop/reorganize partition on Range/List Partitioning, and add/coalesce partition on Hash/Key partitioning
```

In this version, TiDB partition management adds:
      <ul>

>         <li>Add/Coalesce Partition on Hash/Key partitioning</li>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

        <li>Remove partition</li>
        <li>Partitioning existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modifying existing partition types on tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: Add utf8mb4 charset <!--Roger--></td>
    <td> In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0, it's more than likely the collation is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. We'll be seeing more cases where customers are migrating from MySQL 8.0 with collation utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

>     <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td> ROLLUP modifier can cause summary output to include extra rows that represent higher-level summary operations, thus enables you to answer questions at multiple levels of analysis with a single query. ROLLUP modifier is commonly used in data analysis and is used to summarize data in multiple dimensions. </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash pipeline execution model GA <!--Zhang Ye--></td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye--></td>
```

>     <td> <!--Description to be added--> </td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td> Prior to v7.4, TiDB resource control can not manage resource of TiFlash. In v7.4, TiFlash can manage resource better, and improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB. </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>DDL labels for TiDB nodes <!--Frank--></td>
>     <td><!--Description to be added--></td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements. <!--Frank--></td>
    <td>Users have the flexibility to specify whether to execute 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * Support setting the TiDB service scope to select the applicable TiDB nodes to execute `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel (experimental) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1505-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support selecting the TiDB nodes for the backend task distributed execution framework. You can select the applicable TiDB nodes to execute `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel (experimental) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1505-->
```

Reviewer 3: how about "Support selecting the TiDB nodes to execute the backend `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks of the distributed execution framework in parallel (experimental)"

    
    For details, see [documentation]().

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`default_collation_for_utf8mb4`](/system-variables.md#default_collation_for_utf8mb4-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the default collation for the `utf8mb4` character set. The default value is `utf8mb4_bin`. |

> | [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer will select hash joins for tables. The value is `ON` by default. If set to `OF
F`, the optimizer avoids selecting a hash join of a table unless there is no execution plan available. |
| [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740) | Newly added | 该变量用于设置优化器优化目标。`moderate` 维持旧版本的默认行为，优化器会利用更多信息尝试生成更优的计划；`determinate` 则倾向于保守，保持执行计划稳定。 |
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
```

> | [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | You can use this variable to customize the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
> | [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | You can use this variable to customize the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
```

> | [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | You can use this variable to customize the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
> | [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | You can use `tikv_client_read_timeout` to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. When a TiDB cluster is in an environment with unstable network or serious TiKV I/O latency jitter, and your application is sensitive to the latency of the SQL queries, you can set `tikv_client_read_timeout` to reduce the timeout of the TiKV RPC read requests. In this case, when a TiKV node has I/O latency jitter, TiDB can time out quickly and re-send the RPC request to the TiKV node where the next TiKV Region Peer is located. If the requests of all TiKV Region Peers time out, TiDB will retry with the default timeout (usually 40 seconds). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | Controls the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
| [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. The default value `0` indicates that the default timeout (usually 40 seconds) is used. |
```

| [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for TiFlash [query-level spilling](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md#query-level-spilling). The default value is `0.7`. |
[`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is disabled. |
| `tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model` | Deleted | This variable was used to control whether to enable the TiFlash pipeline execution model. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiFlash pipeline execution model is automatically enabled when the TiFlash resource control feature is enabled. |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | you can specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | Specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |
```

> | Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | Specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |
> |          |          |          |          |
> | TiFlash | [`enable_resource_control`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the TiFlash resource control feature. |
> | TiFlash | [`compact_log_min_gap`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | When the gap between the `applied_index` advanced by the current Raft state machine and the `applied_index` at the last disk spilling exceeds `compact_log_min_gap`, TiFlash executes the `CompactLog` command from TiKV and spills data to disk. |
> | TiFlash | [`storage.format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Modified | Change the default value from `4` to `5`. The new format can reduce the number of physical files by merging smaller files. |

Author: ```suggestion
|          |          |          |          |
| TiFlash | [`enable_resource_control`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the TiFlash resource control feature. |
| TiFlash | [`compact_log_min_gap`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | When the gap between the `applied_index` advanced by the current Raft state machine and the `applied_index` at the last disk spilling exceeds `compact_log_min_gap`, TiFlash executes the `CompactLog` command from TiKV and spills data to disk. |
| TiFlash | [`storage.format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Modified | Change the default value from `4` to `5`. The new format can reduce the number of physical files by merging smaller files. |
| Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | Specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |
```

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the longest time of non-ended requests display error on Grafana [#7713](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7713) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that some metrics about maximum duration are incorrect [#8076](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8076) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
```

* Introduce a system variable to control whether to select hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

     MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some business running at MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL has made this feature available through the [``optimizer switch''](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable- optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop). You can select hash joins at the global or session level.
    
    Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-introduced from the -v740- release) to have control over hash joins for tables. It is enabled by default (`ON`). If you are sure that you do not need to select hash joins between tables in your execution plan, you can modify the variable to `OFF` to reduce the possibility of execution plan rollbacks and improve system stability. 

>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740).
    
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-background-tasks).

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to [lock statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB supports locking and unlocking statistics for specific partitions, providing greater flexibility. If you are confident in queries and execution plans in the database and want to prevent any changes from occurring, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息).

* Introduce a system variable to control whether to select hash joins for tables [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

>      MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some applications running on MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL provides the [`optimizer_switch`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable- optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop) to control whether to select hash joins at the global or session level.

Author: ```suggestion
     MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some applications running on MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL provides the [`optimizer_switch`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable-optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop) to control whether to select hash joins at the global or session level.
```

>      MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some business running at MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL has made this feature available through the [``optimizer switch''](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable- optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop). You can select hash joins at the global or session level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some applications running on MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL provides the [`optimizer switch`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable- optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop) to control whether to select hash joins at the global or session level.
```

>     Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-introduced from the -v740- release) to have control over hash joins for tables. It is enabled by default (`ON`). If you are sure that you do not need to select hash joins between tables in your execution plan, you can modify the variable to `OFF` to reduce the possibility of execution plan rollbacks and improve system stability. 

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) to have control over hash joins for tables. It is enabled by default (`ON`). If you are sure that you do not need to select hash joins between tables in your execution plan, you can modify the variable to `OFF` to reduce the possibility of execution plan rollbacks and improve system stability. 
```

    In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages in a table view to improve the diagnosis experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dashboard/dashboard-statement-details.md).

### Data migration

* Enhance the `IMPORT INTO` feature [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter) **tw@qiancai** <!--1494-->

    Starting from v7.4.0, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [global sorting](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature (experimental), which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

    In addition, in v7.4.0, the `IMPORT INTO` feature introduces the following functionalities:

    - Support configuring the `Split_File` option, which allows you to split a large CSV file into multiple 256 MiB small CSV files for parallel processing, improving import performance.
    - Support importing compressed CSV and SQL files. The supported compression formats include `.gzip`, `.gz`, `.zstd`, `.zst`, and `.snappy`.

>     For more information, see [documentation](sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).
```

### Behavior changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`default_collation_for_utf8mb4`](/system-variables.md#default_collation_for_utf8mb4-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the default collation for the `utf8mb4` character set. The default value is `utf8mb4_bin`. |
| [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer will select hash joins for tables. The value is `ON` by default. If set to `OFF`, the optimizer avoids selecting a hash join of a table unless there is no execution plan available. |
| [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable controls the objective of the optimizer. `moderate` maintains the default behavior in versions prior to TiDB v7.4.0, where the optimizer tries to use more information to generate better execution plans. `determinate` mode tends to be more conservative and makes the execution plan more stable. |

> | [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_schema_version_cache_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_version_cache_limit-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable specifies the number of schema information cached for historical versions in a TiDB instance. The default value is 16, which means that 16 historical versions of schema information are cached by default. |
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
```

Reviewer 3: This variable limits how many historical schema versions can be cached in a TiDB instance. The default value is `16`, which means that TiDB caches 16 historical schema versions by default.

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

> - [yumchina](https://github.com/yumchina)

Author: ```suggestion
- [aidendou](https://github.com/aidendou)
- [coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
- [fatelei](https://github.com/fatelei)
- [highpon](https://github.com/highpon)
- [hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
- [isabella0428](https://github.com/isabella0428)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [JK1Zhang](https://github.com/JK1Zhang)
- [joker53-1](https://github.com/joker53-1)
- [L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
- [mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
- [paveyry](https://github.com/paveyry)
- [shawn0915](https://github.com/shawn0915)
- [tedyu](https://github.com/tedyu)
- [yumchina](https://github.com/yumchina)
- [ZhuohaoHe](https://github.com/)
```

    By default, the task types that are marked as background tasks are empty, and the management of background tasks is disabled. This default behavior is the same as that of versions prior to TiDB v7.4.0. To manage background tasks, you need to manually modify the background task types of the `default` resource group.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-background-tasks).

* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1557-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB has enhanced the ability to [lock statistics](/statistics.md#lock-statistics). Now, to ensure operational security, locking and unlocking statistics require the same privileges as collecting statistics. In addition, TiDB supports locking and unlocking statistics for specific partitions, providing greater flexibility. If you are confident in queries and execution plans in the database and want to prevent any changes from occurring, you can lock statistics to enhance stability.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statistics.md#锁定统计信息).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* 引入系统变量禁用表的哈希连接 [#46695](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46695) @[coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)

    表的哈希连接是 MySQL 8.0 引入的新特性，主要用于连接两个相对较大的表和结果集。但对于交易类负载，或者一部分在 MySQL 5.7 稳定运行的业务来说，选择到表的哈希连接可能会对性能产生风险。MySQL 通过[`优化器开关`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable-optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop)能够在全局或者会话级控制哈希连接的选择。TiDB 同样在新版本中引入系统变量 [tidb_opt_enable_hash_join](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-从-v740-版本开始引入) 对表的哈希连接进行控制。默认开启，如果客户非常确定执行计划中不需要选择表之间的哈希连接，则可以修改变量为 `NO`，降低执行计划回退的可能性，提升系统稳定性。
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740).
```

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation]().

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  

> After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.
```

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

> 
> 7.4.0 introduces the following major features. In addition to that, 7.4.0 also includes a series of enhancements (described in the [Feature details](#feature-details) section) to query stability in TiDB server and TiFlash. These enhancements are more miscellaneous in nature and not user-facing so they are not included in the following table.

Author: ```suggestion
```

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
>     <td>Enhance the performance for adding several indexes of a table in a single ALTER statement (experimental) <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>
>     <td>From v6.2 the user can add several indexes of a table in a single ALTER statement. However, the performance is the same as running two single add index DDL statements x, y, which used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>
    <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>
```

>     <td>From v6.2 the user can add several indexes of a table in a single ALTER statement. However, the performance is the same as running two single add index DDL statements x, y, which used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>From v6.2 you can add several indexes of a table in a single ALTER statement. However, the performance is the same as running two single add index DDL statements x, y, which used to take x-time + y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
```

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Improving the performance and stability of 'Import into' and 'Add Index' operations via `global sorting` <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>
>     <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks like ADD INDEX or IMPORT INTO in the distributed parallel execution framework required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach, involving partial and localized sorting, often led to data overlaps, increasing TiKV's resource consumption and lower performance and stability. With the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting. Then the data is imported into TiKV in an orderly, eliminating the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions. This significantly enhances the performance and stability of operations like IMPORT INTO and ADD INDEX.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>
    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the distributed execution framework required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Resource Control for background jobs (experimental) <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td>v7.1 introduced Resource Control to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. v7.4 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. Now the resource produced by background tasks can be identified and managed by resource control. The first to realize this benefit are: Auto-analyze, Backup & Recovery, Load Data, and Online DDL. This should apply to all background tasks eventually. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports storage-computing separation and S3 <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

>     <td>TiFlash introduces a cloud-native architecture as an option:

Reviewer 3: reason: the feature has been introduced in v7.3.0, so it seems incorrect to use "introduce" for v7.4.0

      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Introduces S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="4">SQL</td>

>     <td>More complete partition management <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB fully supports partition management <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

>     <td>Prior to v7.4, TiDB supported truncate partition, exchange partition, add/drop/reorganize partition on Range/List Partitioning, and add/coalesce partition on Hash/Key partitioning
> In this version, TiDB partition management adds:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.4.0, Range/List partitioned tables support partition management operations such as `TRUNCATE`, `EXCHANGE`, `ADD`, `DROP`, and `REORGANIZE`, and Hash/Key partitioned tables support partition management operations such as `ADD` and `COALESCE`.
    
    Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:
```

      <ul>

>         <li>Remove partition</li>
>         <li>Partitioning existing non-partitioned tables</li>
>         <li>Modifying existing partition types on tables</li>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        <li>Convert partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Partition existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modify partition types for existing tables</li>
```

      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: Include collation utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td> One of remarkable change in MySQL 8.0: the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0 with default collection, it can be migrated or replicated to TiDB smoothly. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB and TiFlash support modifier `ROLLUP` and function `GROUPING()` <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

>     <td> ROLLUP modifier can cause summary output to include extra rows that represent higher-level summary operations, thus enables you to answer questions at multiple levels of analysis with a single query. ROLLUP modifier is commonly used in data analysis and is used to summarize data in multiple dimensions. </td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>The `ROLLUP` modifier is commonly used in data analysis to summarize data in multiple dimensions. With the `ROLLUP` modifier, the output of the `GROUP BY` clause can include additional rows that represent higher-level summary operations, thus enabling you to answer questions at multiple levels of analysis with a single query.  </td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye, tw@Oreoxmt --></td>
    <td> Prior to v7.4, TiDB resource control can not manage resource of TiFlash. In v7.4, TiFlash can manage resource better, and improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements. <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements (experimental). <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>
```

>     <td>Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements (experimental). <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank">Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements (experimental)</a> <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>
```

>     <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>
```

     In addition, by setting the session-level system variable [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740), you can add custom identifiers to the logs mentioned above. With this ability to inject your application identification information into the logs, you can correlate the contents of the logs with the application, build the link from the application to the logs, and reduce the difficulty of diagnosis.     

* TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans in a table view [#1589](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-dashboard/issues/1589) @[baurine](https://github.com/baurine) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1434-->

    In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages in a table view to improve the diagnosis experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](链接).

### Data migration

> * Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [#issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1496-->
> 
>     Before v7.4.0, the continuous data validation feature ensures the data consistency during replication from DM to downstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.
> 
>     With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it immediately refreshes the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](链接).

Reviewer: moved to v7.5
```suggestion
```

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>
    <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>

>     <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the distributed execution framework required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>

Author: I'll add all links later.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Resource control for background tasks (experimental) <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>

>     <td>In v7.1.0, the resource control feature becomes generally available and this feature helps mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this contorl to background tasks as well. Resource control identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank"Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">storage-computing separation and S3</a> (GA) <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
    <td>TiFlash disaggregated storage and compute architecture and S3 shared storage becomes generally available:
      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Supports using S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="4">SQL</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="3">SQL</td>
```

>     <td>TiDB fully supports partition management <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table/convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">TiDB fully supports partition management</a> <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, Range/List partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>TRUNCATE</code>, <code>EXCHANGE</code>, <code>ADD</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>REORGANIZE</code>, and Hash/Key partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>ADD</code> and <code>COALESCE</code>.
    

>     Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:

Author: <ul> is the HTML for an itemlist.

      <ul>
        <li>Convert partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Partition existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modify partition types for existing tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code> <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a> <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
```

>     <td> One of remarkable change in MySQL 8.0: the default characterset is utf8mb4, while the default collation of utf8mb4 is utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci. If the database was created on MySQL 8.0 with default collection, it can be migrated or replicated to TiDB smoothly. This was the last piece waiting to call TiDB generally MySQL 8.0 compatible.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility includes collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code> <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td>One of remarkable change in MySQL 8.0 is that the default character set is <code>utf8mb4</code>, while the default collation of <code>utf8mb4</code> is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. A database created on MySQL 8.0 with the default collection can be migrated or replicated to TiDB smoothly. It is the last piece to make TiDB generally compatible with MySQL 8.0.</td>
```

  </tr>

>   <tr>
>     <td>TiDB and TiFlash support the <code>ROLLUP</code> modifier and the <code>GROUPING()</code> function <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
>     <td>The <code>ROLLUP</code> modifier is commonly used in data analysis to summarize data in multiple dimensions. With the <code>ROLLUP</code>modifier, the output of the <code>GROUP BY</code> clause can include additional rows that represent higher-level summary operations, thus enabling you to answer questions at multiple levels of analysis with a single query.  </td>
>   </tr>

Author: ```suggestion
```

  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye, tw@Oreoxmt --></td>

>     <td>Before v7.4.0, TiDB resource control cannot manage resource of TiFlash. In v7.4.0, TiFlash can manage resource better, improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.4.0, TiDB resource control cannot manage resources of TiFlash. Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash can manage resource better, improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB.</td>
```

    Before v7.4.0, when executing tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` in the distributed parallel execution framework, each TiDB node needs to allocate a significant amount of local disk space for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. However, due to the lack of global sorting capability, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each individual node during the process. As a result, TiKV has to constantly perform compaction operations while importing these KV pairs into its storage engine, which impacts the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`.

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

> * Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1307-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1307-->
```

    Before v7.4.0, when you use parallel multi schema change to commit multiple `ADD INDEX` operations in a single SQL statement, the performance is the same as using multiple independent SQL statements for `ADD INDEX` operations. However, after optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.

> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](链接).

Author: ```suggestion
```

   For more information, see [documentation](functions-and-operators/group-by-modifier.md).

### DB operations

- note 1

* Support collation `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` and `utf8mb4_0900_bin` [#37566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37566) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1186-->

    TiDB v7.4.0 enhances the support for migrating data from MySQL 8.0 and adds two collations: `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` and `utf8mb4_0900_bin`. `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` is the default collation in MySQL 8.0.

    TiDB v7.4.0 also introduces the system variable `default_collation_for_utf8mb4` which is compatible with MySQL 8.0. This enables you to specify the default collation for the utf8mb4 character set and provides compatibility with migration or data replication from MySQL 5.7 or earlier versions.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/character-set-and-collation.md#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb).
```

    For details, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-pulsar.md).

- TiCDC improves large message handling with claim-check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1550-->

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    

>     For more information, see [documentation]().

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation]((/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage).
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.
```

    - Fix the issue that the `_` in the `LIKE` clause is incorrectly handled [#46287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46287) [#46618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46618) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the `schemaTs` is set to 0 when TiDB fails to obtain the schema [#46325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46325) @[hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
    - Fix the issue that `Duplicate entry` might occur when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46444) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB recovers slowly after a panic when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46454) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the `next_row_id` in `SHOW CREATE TABLE` is incorrect when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46545) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    <!-- tw@Oreoxmt 以上 10 条-->
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Region information is not updated and saved during Flashback [#6912](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6912) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue of slow switching of PD Leaders due to slow synchronization of store config [#6918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6918) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that the groups are not considered in Scatter Peers [#6962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6962) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that RU consumption less than 0 causes PD to crash [#6973](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6973) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Fix the issue that modified isolation levels were not synchronized to the default placement rules [#7121](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7121) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix an issue that the misleading error message "resolve lock timeout" covers up the actual error when the backup fails [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that implicit primary keys for restoring PITR might conflict [#46520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46520) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that an error occurs when PITR restores the meta-kv [#46578](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46578) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue of BR integration test case errors [#45561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46561) @[purelind](https://github.com/purelind)
```

    + TiCDC

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 修复 PD 做扩缩容场景下 TiCDC 访问无效旧地址的问题 [#9584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9584) @[fubinzh](https://github.com/fubinzh) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复某些特殊场景下会导致 changefeed 失败的问题 [#9309](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9309) [#9450](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9450) [#9542](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9542) [#9685](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9685) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) 
        - 修复上游在同一个事务中同时修改多个 UK 导致下游同步可能会失败的问题 [#9430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9430) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - 修复上游在同一条 DDL 中 rename 多个 table 场景下同步出错的问题 [#9476](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9476) [#9488](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9488) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复 CSV 格式下没有校验中文分隔符的问题 [#9609](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9609) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - 修复在没有 changefeed 时会阻塞上游 tidb gc 的问题 [#9633](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9633) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - 修复开启 scale-out 时流量在节点间分配不均匀问题 [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9665) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - 修复日志中记录了用户敏感信息的问题 [#9690](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9690) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - 修复 DM 在大小写不敏感的 collation 下无法正确处理冲突的问题 [#9489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9489) @[hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
        - 修复 DM validator 死锁问题并增强重试 [#9257](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9257) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - 修复 DM 在跳过失败 DDL 并且后续无 DDL 执行时显示延迟持续增长的问题 [#9605](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9605) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - 修复 DM 在跳过 Online DDL 时无法正确追踪上游表结构的问题 [#9587](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9587) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - 修复 DM 在乐观模式恢复任务时跳过所有 DML 的问题 [#9588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9588) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
        - 修复 DM 在乐观模式中跳过添加 Partition DDL 的问题 [#9788](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9788) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
> 
>     + TiUP
> 
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>         - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports an error when inserting data after importing the `NONCLUSTERED auto_increment` and `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` tables [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiDB&TiFlash support modifier ROLLUP and function GROUPING() <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>
    <td> ROLLUP modifier can cause summary output to include extra rows that represent higher-level summary operations, thus enables you to answer questions at multiple levels of analysis with a single query. ROLLUP modifier is commonly used in data analysis and is used to summarize data in multiple dimensions. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye, tw@Oreoxmt --></td>
    <td> Prior to v7.4, TiDB resource control can not manage resource of TiFlash. In v7.4, TiFlash can manage resource better, and improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the 'IMPORT INTO' and 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements (experimental). <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>

>     <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute 'IMPORT INTO' or 'ADD INDEX' SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>
```

    - Fix the issue that the `_` in the `LIKE` clause is incorrectly handled [#46287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46287) [#46618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46618) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the `schemaTs` is set to 0 when TiDB fails to obtain the schema [#46325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46325) @[hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
    - Fix the issue that `Duplicate entry` might occur when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46444) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB recovers slowly after a panic when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46454) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the `next_row_id` in `SHOW CREATE TABLE` is incorrect when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46545) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    <!-- tw@Oreoxmt 以上 10 条-->

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Change the collation of multi-valued index columns to `binary` to avoid execution failure [#46717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46717) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) 
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs during parsing when using CTE in subqueries [#45838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45838) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
    - Fix the issue that restrictions on partitioned tables remain on the original table when `EXCHANGE PARTITION` fails or is canceled [#45920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45920) [#45791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45791) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue that the definition of List partitions does not support using both `NULL` and empty strings [#45694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45694) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    - Fix the issue of not being able to detect data that does not comply with partition definitions during partition exchange [#46492](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46492) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
```

+ TiKV

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV fails to start when Titan is enabled and the `Blob file deleted twice` error occurs [#15454](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15454) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue of no data in the Thread Voluntary/Nonvoluntary monitoring panels [#15413](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15413) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the data error of continuously increasing raftstore-applys [#15371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15371) @[Connor1996] (https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue caused by incorrect meta information of Region [#13311] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue of QPS dropping to 0 after switching from `sync_recovery` to `sync` [#15366] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15366) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the possible memory leak caused by CpuRecord [#15304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15304) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the error of "Error 9002: TiKV server timeout" when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that the backup TiKV gets stuck when TiKV restarts after the primary cluster recovers [#12320](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12320) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- tw@ran-huang 以上 10 条-->

```

> + TiKV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiKV **tw@ran-huang 9**
```

>        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV fails to start when Titan is enabled and the `Blob file deleted twice` error occurs [#15454](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15454) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV fails to start when Titan is enabled and the `Blob file deleted twice` error occurs [#15454](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15454) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

        - Alleviate the issue that the latency of the PITR log backup progress increases when Region leadership migration occurs [#13638](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13638) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Enhance support for connection reuse of log backup and PITR restore tasks by setting `MaxIdleConns` and `MaxIdleConnsPerHost` parameters in the HTTP client [#46011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46011) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Improve fault tolerance of BR when it fails to connect to PD or external S3 storage [#42909](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42909) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Add a new restore parameter `WaitTiflashReady`. When this parameter is enabled, the restore operation will be completed after TiFlash replicas are successfully replicated [#43828](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43828) [#46302](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46302) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Reduce the CPU overhead of log backup `resolve lock` [#40759](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40759) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>     + TiCDC **tw@Oreoxmt 1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    + TiCDC **tw@Oreoxmt 1**
```

>         - Optimize the execution logic of replicating the `ADD INDEX` DDL operations to avoid blocking subsequent DML statements [#9644](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9644)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the execution logic of replicating the `ADD INDEX` DDL operations to avoid blocking subsequent DML statements [#9644](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9644) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

    + TiDB Lightning **tw@Oreoxmt 4**

        - Fix the issue that checksum still reports errors when `checksum = "optional"` [#45382](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45382) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - Fix the issue that data import fails when the PD cluster address changes [#43436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43436) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)
        - Optimize the retry logic of TiDB Lightning during the Region scatter phase [#46203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46203) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
        - Optimize the retry logic of TiDB Lightning for the `no leader` error during the data import phase [#46253](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46253) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that the `BatchPointGet` operator returns incorrect results for tables that are not hash partitioned [#45891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/45891) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `BatchPointGet` operator returns incorrect results for tables that are not hash partitioned [#45889](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45889) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `BatchPointGet` operator returns incorrect results for hash partitioned tables [#46779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46779) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
>     - Fix the issue that the TiDB parser remains in a state and causes parsing failure [#45903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/45903) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `BatchPointGet` operator returns incorrect results for hash partitioned tables [#46779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46779) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB parser remains in a state and causes parsing failure [#45898](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45898) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
<!-- tw@ran-huang 以上 10 条-->

+ TiKV **tw@ran-huang 9**

    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV fails to start when Titan is enabled and the `Blob file deleted twice` error occurs [#15454](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15454) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

>     - Fix the issue of no data in the Thread Voluntary/Nonvoluntary monitoring panels [#15413](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15413) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
>     - Fix the data error of continuously increasing raftstore-applys [#15371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15371) @[Connor1996] (https://github.com/Connor1996)
>     - Fix the TiKV panic issue caused by incorrect meta information of Region [#13311] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
>     - Fix the issue of QPS dropping to 0 after switching from `sync_recovery` to `sync` [#15366] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15366) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
>     - Fix the possible memory leak caused by CpuRecord [#15304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15304) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
>     - Fix the error of "Error 9002: TiKV server timeout" when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of no data in the Thread Voluntary and Thread Nonvoluntary monitoring panels [#15413](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15413) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - Fix the data error of continuously increasing raftstore-applys [#15371](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15371) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue caused by incorrect metadata of Region [#13311](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13311) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue of QPS dropping to 0 after switching from `sync_recovery` to `sync` [#15366](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15366) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the potential memory leak issue caused by CpuRecord [#15304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15304) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue that `"Error 9002: TiKV server timeout"` occurs when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

Reviewer 2: @ran-huang PTAL

    (dup) - Fix the issue that Online Unsafe Recovery does not abort on timeout [#15346](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15346) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the possible memory leak caused by CpuRecord [#15304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15304) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the error of "Error 9002: TiKV server timeout" when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that the backup TiKV gets stuck when TiKV restarts after the primary cluster recovers [#12320](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12320) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

> + PD

Author: 此处开始全部是由 **tw@hfxsd** 翻译加工

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that an error occurs when inserting data after TiDB Lightning imports the `NONCLUSTERED auto_increment` and `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` tables [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- [aidendou](https://github.com/aidendou)
- [coderplay](https://github.com/coderplay)
- [fatelei](https://github.com/fatelei)
- [highpon](https://github.com/highpon)
- [hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu) (First-time contributor)
- [isabella0428](https://github.com/isabella0428)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [JK1Zhang](https://github.com/JK1Zhang)
- [joker53-1](https://github.com/joker53-1) (First-time contributor)
- [L-maple](https://github.com/L-maple)
- [mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
- [paveyry](https://github.com/paveyry)
- [shawn0915](https://github.com/shawn0915)
- [tedyu](https://github.com/tedyu)
- [yumchina](https://github.com/yumchina)

> - [ZhuohaoHe](https://github.com/)

Author: ```suggestion
- [ZhuohaoHe](https://github.com/ZhuohaoHe)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

> Release date: xx xx, 2023

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: October 12, 2023
```

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) </td>

>     <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    <td>While single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements are already parallelized, execution of multiple in the same statement was not. In v7.4, that is no longer the case. Parallelizing multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations in the same statement greatly improves the performance in this scenarios.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">global sort</a></td>
```

>     <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> using the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> meant localized and partial sorting, which ultimately led to TiKV doing a lot of extra work to make up for the partial sorting. These jobs also required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting, before loading to TiKV.
    
With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in external shared storage (S3 in this version) for global sorting before being loaded into TiKV. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>
```

Reviewer 8: Should we have a link to Global Sorting feature?

Author: The link is already add in L32.

Reviewer 8: Missed that. Ignore this :)

>     <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control for background tasks (experimental)</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control</a> for background tasks (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, bulk load with Lightning, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">storage-computing separation and S3</a> (GA) </td>

>     <td>TiFlash disaggregated storage and compute architecture and S3 shared storage becomes generally available:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash disaggregated storage and compute architecture and S3 shared storage become generally available:
```

      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Supports using S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">SQL</td>

>     <td>TiDB fully supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table#convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">partition management</a> </td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table#convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">partition type management</a> </td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, Range/List partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>TRUNCATE</code>, <code>EXCHANGE</code>, <code>ADD</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>REORGANIZE</code>, and Hash/Key partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>ADD</code> and <code>COALESCE</code>.

>     <p>Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:</p>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <p>Now TiDB also supports the following partition type management operations:</p>
```

>     <p>Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:</p>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <p>Now TiDB also supports the following partition type management operations:</p>
```

      <ul>
        <li>Convert partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Partition existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modify partition types for existing tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a> </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank"> collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a></td>
```

>     <td>One notable change in MySQL 8.0 is that the default character set is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 enhances the compatibility with MySQL 8.0. If you create a database in MySQL 8.0 with the default collation, you can smoothly migrate or replicate it to TiDB.</td>

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    <td>One notable change in MySQL 8.0 is that the default character set is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 such that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank">Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (experimental)</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (experimental)</td>
```

    In this architecture, TiFlash nodes are divided into two types (Compute Nodes and Write Nodes) and support object storage that is compatible with S3 API. Both types of nodes can be independently scaled for computing or storage capacities. In the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, you can use TiFlash in the same way as the coupled storage and compute architecture, such as creating TiFlash replicas, querying data, and specifying optimizer hints.

    Note that the TiFlash **disaggregated storage and compute architecture** and **coupled storage and compute architecture** cannot be used in the same cluster or converted to each other. You can configure which architecture to use when you deploy TiFlash.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3.md).

### Performance

* Support pushing down the JSON operator `MEMBER OF` to TiKV [#46307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46307) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

    * `value MEMBER OF(json_array)`

>     For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).
```

* Support pushing down window functions with any frame definition type to TiFlash [#7376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7376) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     Before v7.4.0, TiFlash does not support window functions containing `PRECEDING` or `FOLLOWING`, and all window functions containing such frame definitions cannot not be pushed down to TiFlash. Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash supports frame definitions of all window functions. This feature is enabled automatically, and window functions containing frame definitions will be automatically pushed down to TiFlash for execution when the related requirements are met.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0, TiFlash does not support window functions containing `PRECEDING` or `FOLLOWING`, and all window functions containing such frame definitions cannot be pushed down to TiFlash. Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash supports frame definitions of all window functions. This feature is enabled automatically, and window functions containing frame definitions will be automatically pushed down to TiFlash for execution when the related requirements are met.
```

    Before v7.4.0, when executing tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` in the distributed parallel execution framework, each TiDB node needs to allocate a significant amount of local disk space for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. However, due to the lack of global sorting capability, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each individual node during the process. As a result, TiKV has to constantly perform compaction operations while importing these KV pairs into its storage engine, which impacts the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`.

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

> * Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta] (https://github.com/tangenta) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

> * Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta] (https://github.com/tangenta) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement by optimizing parallel multi schema change [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md).

* Support user-defined TiKV read timeout [#45380](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45380) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

    Normally, TiKV processes requests very quickly, in a matter of milliseconds. However, when a TiKV node encounters disk I/O jitter or network latency, the request processing time can increase significantly. In versions earlier than v7.4.0, the timeout limit for TiKV requests is fixed and unadjustable. Hence, TiDB has to wait for a fixed-duration timeout response when a TiKV node encounters issues, which results in a noticeable impact on application query performance during jitter.

>     TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If timeouts occur for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. Additionally, you can set the timeout for TiDB to send TiKV RPC read requests in a query via the hint [`TIDB_KV_READ_TIMEOUT(N)`](/optimizer-hints.md#tidb_kv_read_timeoutn). This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB v7.4.0 introduces a new system variable [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740), which lets you customize the timeout for RPC read requests that TiDB sends to TiKV in a query. It means that when the request sent to a TiKV node is delayed due to disk or network issues, TiDB can time out faster and resend the request to other TiKV nodes, thus reducing query latency. If timeouts occur for all TiKV nodes, TiDB will retry using the default timeout. Additionally, you can also use the optimizer hint `/*+ SET_VAR(TIKV_CLIENT_READ_TIMEOUT=N) */` in a query to set the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request. This enhancement gives TiDB the flexibility to adapt to unstable network or storage environments, improving query performance and enhancing the user experience.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740).

* Support temporarily modifying some system variable values using an optimizer hint [#45892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45892) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

    TiDB v7.4.0 introduces the optimizer hint `SET_VAR()`, which is similar to that of MySQL 8.0. By including the hint `SET_VAR()` in SQL statements, you can temporarily modify the value of system variables during statement execution. This helps you set the environment for different statements. For example, you can actively increase the parallelism of resource-intensive SQL statements or change the optimizer behavior through variables.

>     You can find the system variables that can be modified using the hint `SET_VAR()` in [System variables](/system-variables.md). It is strongly recommended not to modify variables that are not explicitly supported, as this might cause unpredictable behavior.

Author: ```suggestion
    You can find the system variables that can be modified using the hint `SET_VAR()` in [system variables](/system-variables.md). It is strongly recommended not to modify variables that are not explicitly supported, as this might cause unpredictable behavior.
```

    For long-term stable OLTP applications or situations where you are confident in the existing execution plans, it is recommended to switch to `determinate` mode after testing. This reduces potential plan changes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740).

* TiDB resource control supports managing background tasks (experimental) [#44517](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44517) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

    Background tasks, such as data backup and automatic statistics collection, are low-priority but consume many resources. These tasks are usually triggered periodically or irregularly. During execution, they consume a lot of resources, thus affecting the performance of online high-priority tasks. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiDB resource control feature supports managing background tasks. This feature reduces the performance impact of low-priority tasks on online application, enabling rational resource allocation, and greatly improving cluster stability.

    TiDB supports the following types of background tasks:

>     - `lightning`: perform import tasks using [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). Both physical and logical import modes of TiDB Lightning are supported.

Reviewer 6: Whether “ import into” is included @songrijie

>     - `lightning`: perform import tasks using [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). Both physical and logical import modes of TiDB Lightning are supported.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - `lightning`: perform import tasks using [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). Both physical and logical import modes of TiDB Lightning and `import into` are supported.
```

    - `br`: perform backup and restore tasks using [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md). PITR is not supported.
    - `ddl`: control the resource usage during the batch data write back phase of Reorg DDLs.
    - `stats`: the [collect statistics](/statistics.md#collect-statistics) tasks that are manually executed or automatically triggered by TiDB.

>     By default, the task types that are marked as background tasks are empty, and the management of background tasks is disabled. This default behavior is the same as that of versions prior to TiDB v7.4.0. To manage background tasks, you need to manually modify the background task types of the `default` resource group.

Author: ```suggestion
  By default, the task types that are marked as background tasks are empty, and the management of background tasks is disabled. This default behavior is the same as that of versions prior to TiDB v7.4.0. To manage background tasks, you need to manually modify the background task types of the `default` resource group.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#manage-background-tasks).

> * Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#issue号](链接) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Author: ```suggestion
* Enhance the ability to lock statistics [#46351](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46351) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

     MySQL 8.0 introduces hash joins for tables as a new feature. This feature is primarily used to join two relatively large tables and result sets. However, for transactional workloads, or some applications running on MySQL 5.7, hash joins for tables might pose a performance risk. MySQL provides the [`optimizer_switch`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/switchable-optimizations.html#optflag_block-nested-loop) to control whether to select hash joins at the global or session level.

    Starting from v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) to have control over hash joins for tables. It is enabled by default (`ON`). If you are sure that you do not need to select hash joins between tables in your execution plan, you can modify the variable to `OFF` to reduce the possibility of execution plan rollbacks and improve system stability.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740).

### SQL

> * TiDB fully supports partition type management [#42728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42728) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* TiDB supports partition type management [#42728](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42728) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    In v7.4.0, TiDB Dashboard supports displaying execution plans on the **Slow Query** and **SQL Statement** pages in a table view to improve the diagnosis experience.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dashboard/dashboard-statement-details.md).

### Data migration

* Enhance the `IMPORT INTO` feature [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

    Starting from v7.4.0, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [global sorting](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature (experimental), which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

    In addition, in v7.4.0, the `IMPORT INTO` feature introduces the following functionalities:

    - Support configuring the `Split_File` option, which allows you to split a large CSV file into multiple 256 MiB small CSV files for parallel processing, improving import performance.
    - Support importing compressed CSV and SQL files. The supported compression formats include `.gzip`, `.gz`, `.zstd`, `.zst`, and `.snappy`.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

Author: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).
```

- TiCDC improves large message handling with claim-check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> * Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core features of MySQL 8.0, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.
```

* After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`default_collation_for_utf8mb4`](/system-variables.md#default_collation_for_utf8mb4-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the default collation for the `utf8mb4` character set. The default value is `utf8mb4_bin`. |

> | [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer will select hash joins for tables. The value is `ON` by default. If set to `OFF`, the optimizer avoids selecting a hash join of a table unless there is no execution plan available. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_opt_enable_hash_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_enable_hash_join-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls whether the optimizer will select hash joins for tables. The value is `ON` by default. If set to `OFF`, the optimizer avoids selecting a hash join of a table unless there is no other execution plan available. |
```

> | [`default_collation_for_utf8mb4`](/system-variables.md#default_collation_for_utf8mb4-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the default collation for the `utf8mb4` character set. The default value is `utf8mb4_bin`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`default_collation_for_utf8mb4`](/system-variables.md#default_collation_for_utf8mb4-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the default collation for the `utf8mb4` character set. The default value is `utf8mb4_bin`. |
| [`tidb_cloud_storage_uri`](/system-variables.md#tidb_cloud_storage_uri-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Specifies the cloud storage URI to enable [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md). |
```

| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | Controls the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
| [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. The default value `0` indicates that the default timeout (usually 40 seconds) is used. |

> | [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default valus is `0`, which means no limit.|

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default values is `0`, which means no limit.|
```

| [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for TiFlash [query-level spilling](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md#query-level-spilling). The default value is `0.7`. |
[`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is disabled. |
| `tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model` | Deleted | This variable was used to control whether to enable the TiFlash pipeline execution model. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiFlash pipeline execution model is automatically enabled when the TiFlash resource control feature is enabled. |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB | [enable-stats-cache-mem-quota](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-stats-cache-mem-quota-new-in-v610) | Modified | The default value is changed from `false` to `true`, which means the memory limit for caching TiDB statistics is enabled by default. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`enable-stats-cache-mem-quota`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-stats-cache-mem-quota-new-in-v610) | Modified | The default value is changed from `false` to `true`, which means the memory limit for caching TiDB statistics is enabled by default. |
```

| TiFlash | [`profiles.default.enable_resource_control`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the TiFlash resource control feature. |
| TiFlash | [`flash.compact_log_min_gap`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Newly added | When the gap between the `applied_index` advanced by the current Raft state machine and the `applied_index` at the last disk spilling exceeds `compact_log_min_gap`, TiFlash executes the `CompactLog` command from TiKV and spills data to disk. |
| TiFlash | [`storage.format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md) | Modified | Change the default value from `4` to `5`. The new format can reduce the number of physical files by merging smaller files. |

> | Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | Specify the desired terminator with this option. This option supports "\r\n" and "\n". The default value is "\r\n", which is consistent with the earlier versions. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Dumpling  | [`--csv-line-terminator`](/dumpling-overview.md#option-list-of-dumpling) | Newly added | Specifies the desired terminator of CSV files . This option supports `"\r\n"` and `"\n"`. The default value is `"\r\n"`, which is consistent with the earlier versions. |
```

    - Optimize the join elimination rule to improve the query performance of `join on unique keys` [#46248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46248) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)
    - Change the collation of multi-valued index columns to `binary` to avoid execution failure [#46717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46717) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ TiKV

    - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM [#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Reduce memory usage of TiCDC Resolver [#15412](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15412) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Reduce memory fluctuations caused by RocksDB compaction [#15324](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15324) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Reduce memory consumption in the flow control module of Partitioned Raft KV [#15269](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15269) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - (dup) Add the backoff mechanism for the PD client in the process of connection retries, which gradually increases retry intervals during error retries to reduce PD pressure [#15428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15428) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Add the backoff mechanism for the PD client in the process of connection retries, which gradually increases retry intervals during error retries to reduce PD pressure [#15428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15428) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

* Add the option of optimizer mode [#46080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46080) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces a new system variable [`tidb_opt_objective`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740), which controls the estimation method used by the optimizer. The default value `moderate` maintains the previous behavior of the optimizer, where it uses runtime statistics to adjust estimations based on data changes. If this variable is set to `determinate`, the optimizer generates execution plans solely based on statistics without considering runtime corrections.

    For long-term stable OLTP applications or situations where you are confident in the existing execution plans, it is recommended to switch to `determinate` mode after testing. This reduces potential plan changes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_objective-new-in-v740).

* TiDB resource control supports managing background tasks (experimental) [#44517](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44517) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     Background tasks, such as data backup and automatic statistics collection, are low-priority but consume many resources. These tasks are usually triggered periodically or irregularly. During execution, they consume a lot of resources, thus affecting the performance of online high-priority tasks. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiDB resource control feature supports managing background tasks. This feature reduces the performance impact of low-priority tasks on online application, enabling rational resource allocation, and greatly improving cluster stability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Background tasks, such as data backup and automatic statistics collection, are low-priority but consume many resources. These tasks are usually triggered periodically or irregularly. During execution, they consume a lot of resources, thus affecting the performance of online high-priority tasks. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiDB resource control feature supports managing background tasks. This feature reduces the performance impact of low-priority tasks on online applications, enabling rational resource allocation, and greatly improving cluster stability.
```

| [`tidb_schema_version_cache_limit`](/system-variables.md#tidb_schema_version_cache_limit-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable limits how many historical schema versions can be cached in a TiDB instance. The default value is `16`, which means that TiDB caches 16 historical schema versions by default. |
| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | Controls the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |

> | [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default values is `0`, which means no limit.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default value is `0`, which means no limit.|
```

- TiCDC improves large message handling with claim-check pattern [#9153](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9153) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw@ran-huang** <!--1550-->

    Before v7.4.0, TiCDC is unable to send large messages exceeding the maximum message size (`max.message.bytes`) of Kafka to downstream. Starting from v7.4.0, when configuring a changefeed with Kafka as the downstream, you can specify an external storage location for storing the large message, and send a reference message containing the address of the large message in the external storage to Kafka. When consumers receive this reference message, they can retrieve the message content from the external storage address. 
    
    For more information, see [documentation]((/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.3.0 to the current version (v7.4.0). If you are upgrading from v7.2.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

> * Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  
> * After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.
> ### Behavior changes

Author: ```suggestion
### Behavior changes

* Starting with v7.4.0, TiDB is compatible with core MySQL 8.0 features, and `version()` returns the version prefixed with `8.0.11`.  
* After TiFlash is upgraded to v7.4.0 from an earlier version, in-place downgrading to the original version is not supported. This is because, starting from v7.4, TiFlash optimizes the data compaction logic of PageStorage V3 to reduce the read and write amplification generated during data compaction, which leads to changes to some of the underlying storage file names.
```

| [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) | Newly added | This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md). |
| [`tidb_session_alias`](/system-variables.md#tidb_session_alias-new-in-v740) |  Newly added | Controls the value of the `session_alias` column in the logs related to the current session. |
| [`tikv_client_read_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tikv_client_read_timeout-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the timeout for TiDB to send a TiKV RPC read request in a query. The default value `0` indicates that the default timeout (usually 40 seconds) is used. |

> |        |                              |      |
> | [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default valus is `0`, which means no limit.|
> | [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for TiFlash [query-level spilling](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md#query-level-spilling). The default value is `0.7`. |
> [`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is disabled. |
> | `tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model` | Deleted | This variable was used to control whether to enable the TiFlash pipeline execution model. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiFlash pipeline execution model is automatically enabled when the TiFlash resource control feature is enabled. |
> |        |                              |      |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_mem_quota_query_per_node-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Limits the maximum memory usage for a query on a TiFlash node. When the memory usage of a query exceeds this limit, TiFlash returns an error and terminates the query. The default valus is `0`, which means no limit.|
| [`tiflash_query_spill_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_query_spill_ratio-new-in-v740) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for TiFlash [query-level spilling](/tiflash/tiflash-spill-disk.md#query-level-spilling). The default value is `0.7`. |
[`tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache) | Modified |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF` after further tests, meaning that non-prepared execution plan cache is disabled. |
| `tidb_enable_tiflash_pipeline_model` | Deleted | This variable was used to control whether to enable the TiFlash pipeline execution model. Starting from v7.4.0, the TiFlash pipeline execution model is automatically enabled when the TiFlash resource control feature is enabled. |
```

| TiCDC | [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage) | Modified | This configuration item adds a new value `claim-check`. When it is set to `claim-check`, TiCDC Kafka sink supports sending the message to external storage when the message size exceeds the limit and sends a message to Kafka containing the address of this large message in external storage. |
| TiCDC | [`claim-check-storage-uri`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage) | Newly added | When `large-message-handle-option` is set to `claim-check`, `claim-check-storage-uri` must be set to a valid external storage address. Otherwise, creating a changefeed results in an error. |
| TiCDC | [`large-message-handle-compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#ticdc-data-compression) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable compression during encoding. The default value is empty, which means not enabled. |

> 
> ## Deprecated features
> 
> - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB **tw@qiancai 4**

    - Optimize memory usage and performance for `ANALYZE` operations on partitioned tables [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Optimize memory usage and performance for statistics garbage collection [#31778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31778) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Optimize the pushdown of `limit` for index merge intersections to improve query performance [#46863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46863) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Improve the cost model to minimize the chances of mistakenly choosing a full table scan when `IndexLookup` involves many table retrieval tasks [#45132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45132) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

+ TiKV **tw@qiancai 7**

    - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM[#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM [#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
```

+ PD **tw@qiancai 4**

    - Optimize TSO tracing information for easier investigation of TSO-related issues [#6856](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/6856) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Support reusing HTTP Client connections to reduce memory usage [#6913](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6913) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Improve the speed of PD automatically updating cluster status when the backup cluster is disconnected [#6883](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6883) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
    - Enhance the configuration retrieval method of the resource control client to dynamically fetch the latest configurations [#7043](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7043) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

+ TiFlash **tw@qiancai 3**

    - Improve write performance during random write workloads by optimizing the spilling policy of the TiFlash write process [#7564](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7564) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Add more metrics about the Raft replication process for TiFlash [#8068](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8068) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)

>     - Reduce the number of small files to avoid potential exhaustion of file system inodes  [#7595](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7595) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the number of small files to avoid potential exhaustion of file system inodes [#7595](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7595) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
<!-- tw@ran-huang 以上 10 条-->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` can not parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that HashCode is repeatedly calculated for deeply nested expressions, which causes high memory usage and OOM [#42788] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42788) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that the `cast(col)=range` condition causes FullScan when CAST has no precision loss [#45199] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45199) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that when Aggregation is pushed through Union in MPP execution plans, the results are incorrect [#45850] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45850) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that bindings with `in (?)` can not match `in (?, ... ?)` [#44298] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44298) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that occurs when connection collation is not considered when `non-prep plan cache` reuses the execution plan [#47008] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47008) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an executed plan does not hit the plan cache phase without reporting a warning [#46159] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46159) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that `plan replayer dump explain` reports an error [#46197] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46197) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that an DML operation with CTE can panic [#46083] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46083) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - The `TIDB_INLJ` hint does not take effect when joining two sub-queries [#46160] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46160) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
<!-- tw@hfxsd 以上 10 条-->
```

    - Improve the cost model to minimize the chances of mistakenly choosing a full table scan when `IndexLookup` involves many table retrieval tasks [#45132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45132) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

+ TiKV **tw@qiancai 7**

    - Optimize memory usage of Resolver to prevent OOM [#15458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15458) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Eliminate LRUCache in Router objects to reduce memory usage and prevent OOM[#15430](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15430) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Reduce memory usage of TiCDC Resolver [#15412](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15412) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Reduce memory fluctuations caused by RocksDB compaction [#15324](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15324) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Reduce memory consumption in the flow control module of Partitioned Raft KV [#15269](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15269) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Reduce `MemberList` requests in PD and optimize PD calls [#15428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15428) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Add the backoff mechanism for the PD client in the process of connection retries, which gradually increases retry intervals during error retries to reduce PD pressure [#15428](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15428) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

    - Fix the error of "Error 9002: TiKV server timeout" when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that the backup TiKV gets stuck when TiKV restarts after the primary cluster recovers [#12320](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12320) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the Region information is not updated and saved during Flashback [#6912](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6912) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue of slow switching of PD Leaders due to slow synchronization of store config [#6918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6918) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that the groups are not considered in Scatter Peers [#6962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6962) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that RU consumption less than 0 causes PD to crash [#6973](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6973) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

>     - Fix the issue that modified isolation levels were not synchronized to the default placement rules [#7121](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7121) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that modified isolation levels were not synchronized to the default placement rules [#7121](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7121) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 修复在集群规模大时 client-go 周期性更新 `min-resolved-ts` 可能造成 PD OOM 的问题Fix the issue that  periodic updates of `min-resolved-ts` in client-go might cause PD OOM when the cluster size is large [#46664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46664) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
```

Reviewer 3: from https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/14954/files#r1349660670

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) </td>
```

    <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort <!--Frank, tw@ran-huang--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort </td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource control for background tasks (experimental) <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource control for background tasks (experimental) </td>
```

    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">storage-computing separation and S3</a> (GA) <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">storage-computing separation and S3</a> (GA) </td>
```

    <td>TiFlash disaggregated storage and compute architecture and S3 shared storage becomes generally available:
      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Supports using S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">SQL</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="2">SQL</td>
```

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table/convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">TiDB fully supports partition management</a> <!--Zhang Ye, tw@qiancai--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table/convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">TiDB fully supports partition management</a> </td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, Range/List partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>TRUNCATE</code>, <code>EXCHANGE</code>, <code>ADD</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>REORGANIZE</code>, and Hash/Key partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>ADD</code> and <code>COALESCE</code>.
    
    Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:
      <ul>
        <li>Convert partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Partition existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modify partition types for existing tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a> <!--Roger, tw@Oreoxmt--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a> </td>
```

    <td>One notable change in MySQL 8.0 is that the default character set is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 enhances the compatibility with MySQL 8.0. If you create a database in MySQL 8.0 with the default collation, you can smoothly migrate or replicate it to TiDB.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye, tw@Oreoxmt --></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiFlash supports resource control </td>
```

>   <tr>
>     <td>TiFlash supports resource control <!--Zhang Ye, tw@Oreoxmt --></td>
>     <td>Before v7.4.0, TiDB resource control cannot manage resources of TiFlash. Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash can manage resources better, improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB.</td>
>   </tr>

Author: ```suggestion
```

  <tr>
    <td>DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank">Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO<code> and <code>ADD INDEX<code> SQL statements (experimental)</a> <!--Frank, tw@hfxsd--></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank">Specify the respective TiDB nodes to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO<code> and <code>ADD INDEX<code> SQL statements (experimental)</a></td>
```

| TiCDC | [`claim-check-storage-uri`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage) | Newly added | When `large-message-handle-option` is set to `claim-check`, `claim-check-storage-uri` must be set to a valid external storage address. Otherwise, creating a changefeed results in an error. |
| TiCDC | [`large-message-handle-compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#ticdc-data-compression) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable compression during encoding. The default value is empty, which means not enabled. |

## Improvements

+ TiDB **tw@qiancai 4**

    - Optimize memory usage and performance for `ANALYZE` operations on partitioned tables [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Optimize memory usage and performance for statistics garbage collection [#31778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31778) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Optimize the pushdown of `limit` for index merge intersections to improve query performance [#46863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46863) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>     - Improve the cost model to minimize the chances of mistakenly choosing a full table scan when `IndexLookup` involves many table retrieval tasks [#45132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45132) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the cost model to minimize the chances of mistakenly choosing a full table scan when `IndexLookup` involves many table retrieval tasks [#45132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45132) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Optimize the join elimination rule to improve the query performance of `join on unique keys`  [#46248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46248) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

> <!-- tw@ran-huang 以上 10 条-->

Reviewer 3: 这里还需要增加一条英文 @hfxsd 
![image](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/79440533/d9338b9d-0020-43f2-964a-c29e1ace61a1)

Author: 加到下面了，https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14834/files#r1349874624

>     - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` can not parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer 3: 这条前面还需要增加一条英文
![image](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/79440533/400523f6-f525-4276-9583-f4c340b240f8)

>     - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` can not parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - Fix the issue that HashCode is repeatedly calculated for deeply nested expressions, which causes high memory usage and OOM [#42788] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42788) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - Fix the issue that the `cast(col)=range` condition causes FullScan when CAST has no precision loss [#45199] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45199) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - Fix the issue that when Aggregation is pushed through Union in MPP execution plans, the results are incorrect [#45850] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45850) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
>     - Fix the issue that bindings with `in (?)` can not match `in (?, ... ?)` [#44298] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44298) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - Fix the issue that occurs when connection collation is not considered when `non-prep plan cache` reuses the execution plan [#47008] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47008) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - Fix the issue that an executed plan does not hit the plan cache phase without reporting a warning [#46159] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46159) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - Fix the issue that `plan replayer dump explain` reports an error [#46197] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46197) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - Fix the issue that an DML operation with CTE can panic [#46083] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46083) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` can not parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that HashCode is repeatedly calculated for deeply nested expressions, which causes high memory usage and OOM [#42788](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42788) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that the `cast(col)=range` condition causes FullScan when CAST has no precision loss [#45199](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45199) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that when Aggregation is pushed through Union in MPP execution plans, the results are incorrect [#45850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45850) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that bindings with `in (?)` can not match `in (?, ... ?)` [#44298](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44298) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that occurs when connection collation is not considered when `non-prep plan cache` reuses the execution plan [#47008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47008) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an executed plan does not hit the plan cache phase without reporting a warning [#46159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46159) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that `plan replayer dump explain` reports an error [#46197](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46197) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that an DML operation with CTE can panic [#46083](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46083) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `TIDB_INLJ` hint does not take effect when joining two sub-queries [#46160] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46160) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `TIDB_INLJ` hint does not take effect when joining two sub-queries [#46160] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46160) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that the results of `MERGE_JOIN` are incorrect [#46580] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46580) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

    - Fix the error of "Error 9002: TiKV server timeout" when the backup cluster is down and the primary cluster is queried [#12914](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12914) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Fix the issue that the backup TiKV gets stuck when TiKV restarts after the primary cluster recovers [#12320](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12320) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that the Region information is not updated and saved during Flashback [#6912](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6912) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue of slow switching of PD Leaders due to slow synchronization of store config [#6918](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6918) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that the groups are not considered in Scatter Peers [#6962](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6962) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that RU consumption less than 0 causes PD to crash [#6973](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6973) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

>     - Fix the issue that modified isolation levels were not synchronized to the default placement rules [#7121](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7121) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that modified isolation levels are not synchronized to the default placement rules [#7121](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7121) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that the longest time of non-ended requests can not displayed correctly on Grafana [#7713](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7713) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that some metrics about the maximum duration are not correct [#8076](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8076) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB incorrectly assumes that an MPP task has failed [#7177](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7177) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix an issue that the misleading error message `resolve lock timeout` covers up the actual error when backup fails [#43236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/43236) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that implicit primary keys for restoring PITR might conflict [#46520](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46520) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - Fix the issue that an error occurs when PITR restores meta-kv [#46578](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46578) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that recovering meta-kv using PITR might cause errors [#46578](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46578) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

        - Fix the issue that upstream TiDB GC is blocked after all changefeeds are removed [#9633](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9633) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the issue of uneven distribution of traffic among nodes when `scale-out` is enabled [#9665](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9665) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Fix the issue that sensitive user information is recorded in the logs [#9690](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9690) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Fix the issue that DM can not handle conflicts correctly with case-insensitive collations [#9489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9489) @[hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
        - Fix the DM validator deadlock issue and enhance retries [#9257](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9257) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that the display delay continues to increase when a failed DDL is skipped and no subsequent DDLs are executed [#9605](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9605) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>         - Fix the issue that DM can not properly track upstream table schemas when skipping online DDLs [#9587](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9587) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM cannot properly track upstream table schemas when skipping online DDLs [#9587](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9587) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

        - Fix the issue that DM skips all DMLs when resuming a task in optimistic mode [#9588](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9588) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

>         - Fix the issue that DM skips adding Partition DDLs in optimistic mode [#9788](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9788) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that DM skips partition DDLs in optimistic mode [#9788](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9788) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the issue that an error occurs when inserting data after TiDB Lightning imports the `NONCLUSTERED auto_increment` and `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` tables [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that inserting data returns an error after TiDB Lightning imports the `NONCLUSTERED auto_increment` and `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` tables [#46100](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46100) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) </td>
    <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via global sort </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Improve the performance and stability of <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> operations via [global sort](/tidb-global-sort.md)</td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, tasks such as <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> in the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> required TiDB nodes to allocate local disk space for sorting data before importing it into TiKV. This approach involves partial and localized sorting, and often results in data overlaps, leading to increased resource consumption and lower performance and stability of TiKV. With the introduction of the Global Sorting feature in v7.4.0, data is temporarily stored in S3 for global sorting before being imported into TiKV in an orderly manner. This eliminates the need for TiKV to consume extra resources on compactions and significantly improves the performance and stability of operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource control for background tasks (experimental) </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control for background tasks (experimental)</td>
```

>     <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
```

    
    Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:
      <ul>
        <li>Convert partitioned tables to non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Partition existing non-partitioned tables</li>
        <li>Modify partition types for existing tables</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/character-set-and-collation#character-sets-and-collations-supported-by-tidb" target="_blank">MySQL 8.0 compatibility: support collation <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code></a> </td>
    <td>One notable change in MySQL 8.0 is that the default character set is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 enhances the compatibility with MySQL 8.0. If you create a database in MySQL 8.0 with the default collation, you can smoothly migrate or replicate it to TiDB.</td>
  </tr>

>   <tr>
>     <td>TiFlash supports resource control </td>
>     <td>Before v7.4.0, TiDB resource control cannot manage resources of TiFlash. Starting from v7.4.0, TiFlash can manage resources better, improving the overall resource management capabilities of TiDB.</td>
>   </tr>

Author: ```suggestion
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `tmp-storage-quota` configuration does not take effect [#45161](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45161) [#26806](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26806) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `WEIGHT_STRING()` function does not match the collation [#45725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45725) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that an error in Index Join might cause the query to get stuck [#45716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45716) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the behavior is inconsistent with MySQL when comparing a `DATETIME` or `TIMESTAMP` column with a number constant [#38361](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38361) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the incorrect result that occurs when comparing unsigned types with `Duration` type constants [#45410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45410) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
<!-- tw@ran-huang 以上 10 条-->

>     - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` cannot parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix an issue that access path pruning logic ignores the `READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[...]) ` hint and causes the `Can't find a proper physical plan` error [#40146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40146) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that `GROUP_CONCAT` cannot parse the `ORDER BY` column [#41986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41986) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

Reviewer 3: LGTM

---
title: TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.4.0.
---

# TiDB 7.4.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.4.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.4.0#version-list)

7.4.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Enhance the performance of adding multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement (experimental) </td>
    <td>Since v6.2.0, you can add multiple indexes for a table in a single <code>ADD INDEX</code> statement. However, the performance is the same as running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements. After optimization in v7.4.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement has been greatly improved.</td>

>     </td>

Author: ```suggestion
```

    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, load data, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiFlash supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/tiflash-disaggregated-and-s3" target="_blank">storage-computing separation and S3</a> (GA) </td>
    <td>TiFlash disaggregated storage and compute architecture and S3 shared storage becomes generally available:
      <ul>
        <li>Disaggregates TiFlash's compute and storage, which is a milestone for elastic HTAP resource utilization.</li>
        <li>Supports using S3-based storage engine, which can provide shared storage at a lower cost.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">SQL</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table/convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">TiDB fully supports partition management</a> </td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/partitioned-table#convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table" target="_blank">TiDB fully supports partition management</a> </td>
```

    <td>Before v7.4.0, Range/List partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>TRUNCATE</code>, <code>EXCHANGE</code>, <code>ADD</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>REORGANIZE</code>, and Hash/Key partitioned tables support partition management operations such as <code>ADD</code> and <code>COALESCE</code>.

>     
>     Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <p>Now TiDB also supports the following partition management operations:</p>
```

| TiCDC | [`large-message-handle-option`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage) | Modified | This configuration item adds a new value `claim-check`. When it is set to `claim-check`, TiCDC Kafka sink supports sending the message to external storage when the message size exceeds the limit and sends a message to Kafka containing the address of this large message in external storage. |
| TiCDC | [`claim-check-storage-uri`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#send-large-messages-to-external-storage) | Newly added | When `large-message-handle-option` is set to `claim-check`, `claim-check-storage-uri` must be set to a valid external storage address. Otherwise, creating a changefeed results in an error. |
| TiCDC | [`large-message-handle-compression`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#ticdc-data-compression) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable compression during encoding. The default value is empty, which means not enabled. |

## Improvements

+ TiDB **tw@qiancai 4**

>     - Optimize memory usage and performance for `ANALYZE` operations on partitioned tables [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize memory usage and performance for `ANALYZE` operations on partitioned tables [#47071](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47071) [#47104](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47104) [#46804](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46804) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - Optimize memory usage and performance for statistics garbage collection [#31778](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31778) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Optimize the pushdown of `limit` for index merge intersections to improve query performance [#46863](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46863) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Improve the cost model to minimize the chances of mistakenly choosing a full table scan when `IndexLookup` involves many table retrieval tasks [#45132](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45132) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - Optimize the join elimination rule to improve the query performance of `join on unique keys` [#46248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46248) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the join elimination rule to improve the query performance of `join on unique keys` [#46248](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46248) @[fixdb](https://github.com/fixdb)
     - Change the collation of multi-valued index columns to `binary` to avoid execution failure [#46717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46717) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) 
```

Reviewer 3: the line of #46717 is from https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14834/files#r1349895495

    - Fix the issue that the `_` in the `LIKE` clause is incorrectly handled [#46287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46287) [#46618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46618) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that the `schemaTs` is set to 0 when TiDB fails to obtain the schema [#46325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46325) @[hihihuhu](https://github.com/hihihuhu)
    - Fix the issue that `Duplicate entry` might occur when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46444) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB recovers slowly after a panic when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46454](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46454) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue that the `next_row_id` in `SHOW CREATE TABLE` is incorrect when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` is set [#46545](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46545) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    <!-- tw@Oreoxmt 以上 10 条-->

>     - Change the collation of multi-valued index columns to `binary` to avoid execution failure [#46717](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46717) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: sync from https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/14954/commits/49b4bc3df537bd783c1636a483171414d99af226

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#convert-a-partitioned-table-to-a-non-partitioned-table).

* TiDB supports using the `ROLLUP` modifier and the `GROUPING` function [#44487](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44487) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid) **tw@qiancai** <!--1287-->

    The `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function are commonly used in data analysis for multi-dimensional data summarization. Starting from v7.4.0, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier and `GROUPING` function in the `GROUP BY` clause. For example, you can use the `WITH ROLLUP` modifier in the `SELECT ... FROM ... GROUP BY ... WITH ROLLUP` syntax.

   For more information, see [documentation](functions-and-operators/group-by-modifier.md).

### DB operations

> 
> - note 1

Author: ```suggestion
```
